# DV-2023

at least a high school education or its equivalent, defined as successful completion of
a 12-year course of formal elementary and secondary education;


## Время отправки

Начиная с 12:00 pm (полдень), Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) (GMT-4)

до 

12:00 pm (полдень), Eastern Standard Time (EST) (GMT-5)


Тоесть судя по всему с 7 вечера до

Entry period
Applicants must submit entries for the DV-2023 program electronically at
dvprogram.state.gov between 12:00 pm (noon), Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) (GMT-4),
Wednesday, October 6, 2021, and 12:00 pm (noon), Eastern Standard Time (EST) (GMT-
5), Tuesday, November 9, 2021. Do not wait until the last week of the registration period
to enter as heavy demand may result in website delays. No late entries or paper entries
will be accepted. The law allows only one entry per person during each entry period. The
Department of State uses sophisticated technology to detect multiple
entries. Submission of more than one entry will render you ineligible for a DV.

Completing your Electronic Entry for the DV-2023 Program

Submit your Electronic Diversity Visa Entry Form (E-DV Entry Form or DS-5501), online at
dvprogram.state.gov. We will not accept incomplete entries or entries sent by any other
means. There is no cost to submit the online entry form. Please use an updated browser
when submitting your application; older browsers (Internet Explorer 8, for example) will
likely encounter problems with the online DV system.


It is extremely important that you retain the printout of your
confirmation page and unique confirmation number.

You also should
retain access to the email account listed in your E-DV entry.



After you submit a complete entry, you will see a confirmation screen containing your
name and a unique confirmation number. Print this confirmation screen for your records.
Starting May 8, 2022, you will be able to check the status of your entry by returning to
dvprogram.state.gov, clicking on Entrant Status Check, and entering your unique
confirmation number and personal information.


Check, and entering your unique
confirmation number and personal information. You must use Entrant Status Check to
check if you have been selected for DV-2023 and, if selected, to view instructions on how
to proceed with your application. The U.S. government will not inform you directly.
Entrant Status Check is the sole source for instructions on how to proceed with your
application. If you are selected and submit a visa application and required documents,
you must use Entrant Status Check to check your immigrant visa interview appointment
date. Please review the Frequently Asked Questions for more information about the
selection process.



1. Name – last/family name, first name, middle name – exactly as it appears on your
   passport (for example, if your passport shows only your first and last/family name, please
   list your last/family name and then first name; do not include a middle name unless it is
   included on your passport. If your passport includes a first, middle and last/family name,
   please list them in the following order: last/family name, first name, middle name). If
   you have only one name, it must be entered in the last/family name field.
2. Gender – male or female.
3. Birth date – day, month, year.
4. City where you were born.
5. Country where you were born – Use the name of the country currently used for the
   place where you were born.
6. Country of eligibility for the DV program – Your country of eligibility will normally be
   the same as your country of birth. Your country of eligibility is not related to where
   you live or your nationality, if it is different from your country of birth. If you were
   born in a country that is not eligible, please review the Frequently Asked Questions to
   see if there is another way you may be eligible.


The passport number, country of issuance, and expiration date for your valid,
unexpired international travel passport. This requirement does not apply todependents. You must enter valid international travel passport information unless
you meet the requirements for an exemption. An exemption may apply if you are
stateless, a national of a Communist-controlled country and unable to obtain a
passport from the government of the Communist-controlled country, or the
beneficiary of an individual waiver approved by the Secretary of Homeland Security
and the Secretary of State. Claiming an exemption for which you are ineligible, or
failing to enter valid passport information, will make you ineligible for a DV. For
more information on whether or not you meet an exemption, see question 12 in the
Frequently Asked Questions document.

Entrant photograph(s) – Recent photographs (taken within the last six months) of
yourself, your spouse, and all your derivative children. See Submitting a Digital
Photograph for compositional and technical specifications. You do not need to include
a photograph for a spouse or child who is already a U.S. citizen or a Lawful
Permanent Resident, but you will not be penalized if you do.

DV entry photographs must meet the same standards as U.S. visa photos. You will
be ineligible for a DV if the entry photographs for you and your family members do
not fully meet these specifications or have been manipulated in any way. Submitting
the same photograph that was submitted with a prior year’s entry will make you
ineligible for a DV. See Submitting a Digital Photograph (below) for more
information.

9. Mailing Address – In Care Of
   Address Line 1
   Address Line 2
   City/Town
   District/Country/Province/State
   Postal Code/Zip Code
   Country
9. Country where you live today.
10. Phone number (optional).

11. Email address – An email address to which you have direct access, and will continue
    to have direct access through May of the next year. If you check the Entrant Status
    Check in May and learn you have been selected, you will later receive follow-up email
    communication from the Department of State with details if an immigrant visa
    interview becomes available. The Department of State will never send you an
    email telling you that you have been selected for the DV program. See the
    Frequently Asked Questions for more information about the selection process.


12.
Highest level of education you have achieved, as of today: (1) Primary school only,
(2) Some high school, no diploma, (3) High school diploma, (4) Vocational school,
(5) Some university courses, (6) University degree, (7) Some graduate-level courses,
(8) Master’s degree, (9) Some doctoral-level courses, or (10) Doctorate. See the
Frequently Asked Questions for more information about educational requirements.
13. Current marital status: (1) unmarried, (2) married and my spouse is NOT a U.S.
    citizen or U.S. Lawful Permanent Resident (LPR), (3) married and my spouse IS aU.S. citizen or U.S. LPR, (4) divorced, (5) widowed, or (6) legally separated. Enter
    the name, date of birth, gender, city/town of birth, and country of birth of your
    spouse, and a photograph of your spouse meeting the same technical specifications
    as your photo.

Failure to list your eligible spouse or, listing someone who is not your spouse, will
make you ineligible as the DV principal applicant and your spouse and children
ineligible as DV derivative applicants. You must list your spouse even if you currently
are separated from him/her, unless you are legally separated. Legal separation is an
arrangement when a couple remain married but live apart, following a court order. If
you and your spouse are legally separated, your spouse will not be able to immigrate
with you through the DV program. You will not be penalized if you choose to enter
the name of a spouse from whom you are legally separated. If you are not legally
separated by a court order, you must include your spouse even if you plan to be
divorced before you apply for the Diversity Visa or your spouse does not intend to
immigrate.

14. Number of children – List the name, date of birth, gender, city/town of birth, and
    country of birth for all living, unmarried children under 21 years of age, regardless of
    whether they are living with you or intend to accompany or follow to join you, should
    you immigrate to the United States. Submit individual photographs of each of your
    children using the same technical specifications as your own photograph.


Selection of Entries
Based on the allocations of available visas in each region and country, the Department of
State will randomly select individuals by computer from among qualified entries. All DV-
2023 entrants must go to the Entrant Status Check using the unique confirmation number
saved from their DV-2023 online entry registration to find out whether their entry has
been selected in the DV program. Entrant Status Check will be available on the E-DV
website at dvprogram.state.gov from May 8, 2022, through at least September 30,
2023.

If your entry is selected, you will be directed to a confirmation page providing further
instructions, including information about fees connected with immigration to the United
States. Entrant Status Check will be the ONLY means by which the Department of State
notifies selectees of their selection for DV-2023. The Department of State will not mail
notification letters or notify selectees by email. U.S. embassies and consulates will not
provide a list of selectees. Individuals who have not been selected also ONLY will be
notified through Entrant Status Check. You are strongly encouraged to access Entrant
Status Check yourself. Do not rely on someone else to check and inform you.


https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/visa-information-resources/photos/photo-examples.html - example
https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/visa-information-resources/photos/photo-composition-template.html - template

# Фото

- https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/visa-information-resources/photos/photo-examples.html - пример;
- https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/visa-information-resources/photos/photo-composition-template.html - шаблон;

## Общее

- В цвете;
- В фокусе;
- Голова должна занимать 1 дюйм или 1 3/8 дюйма (22 мм and 35 мм) или 50(69) процентов самого изображения, c подбородка до макушки;
- Фото должно быть сделано не раньше чем 6 месяцев назад;
- Должно быть на белом фоне (ровном);
- Анфас;
- С открытыми глазми и безэмоционально;
- В одежде которой мы ходим постоянно;

## Файл

- JPEG (.jpg);
- Меньше или равному 240 kB;
- Соотношение сторон должно быть одинаково (ширина равна высоте);
- 600x600 пикселей

## Скан

- 2 x 2 дюйма (51 x 51 мм)
- Разрешение 300 пикселей на дюйм (12 пикселей на миллиметр);




13. What if my passport expires, or I lose it before I apply for a visa?
    If your passport number changes for any reason, you will have to provide evidence of why it has changed to
    the Department of State’s Kentucky Consular Center (KCC) before they will schedule your DV interview. If
    you enter a false, inaccurate, or invalid passport number on your DV entry, you will be ineligible for a DV. We
    suggest you make a legible photocopy of the passport you use for the entry and store it in a secure location
    with your entry confirmation number (FAQ #27). A photocopy alone is not proof you entered a valid passport
    number on your entry, but it can help you explain the situation. The final determination is made by the
    Consular Officer at the time of your DV interview.


14. May my spouse and I each submit a separate entry?
    Yes, each spouse may each submit one entry if each meets the eligibility requirements. If either spouse is
    selected, the other is entitled to apply as a derivative dependent.

Read the DV instructions completely before
you start to complete the form online so that you know exactly what information you will need.

21. If the E-DV system rejects my entry, can I resubmit my entry?
    Yes, you can resubmit your entry as long as your submission is completed by 12:00 pm (noon) Eastern
    Standard Time (EST) (GMT-5) on Tuesday, November 9, 2021. You will not be penalized for submitting a
    duplicate entry if the E-DV system rejects your initial entry. Given the unpredictable nature of the Internet,you may not receive the rejection notice immediately. You can try to submit an application as many times as
    is necessary until a complete application is received and the confirmation notice sent. Once you receive a
    confirmation notice, your entry is complete, and you should NOT submit any additional entries.

You must use your confirmation number to access the Entrant Status Check available on the E-DV website at
dvprogram.state.gov from May 8, 2022, through September 30, 2023. Entrant Status Check is the sole
means by which the Department of State will notify you if you are selected, provide further instructions on
your visa application, and notify you of your immigrant visa interview appointment date and time. In order to
ensure the use of all available visas, the Department of State may use Entrant Status Check to notify
additional selectees after May 8, 2022. Retain your confirmation number until September 30, 2023, in case of
any updates. The only authorized Department of State website for official online entry in the Diversity Visa
Program and Entrant Status Check is dvprogram.state.gov.

Deceptive emails may come from people pretending to be affiliated with the Kentucky Consular Center or the
Department of State. Remember that the U.S. government has never sent emails to notify
individuals they have been selected, and there are no plans to use email for this purpose for the
DV-2023 program. The Department of State will never ask you to send money by mail or by
services such as Western Union, although applications to USCIS for adjustments of status do
require mailing a fee.

Official notifications of selection will be made through Entrant Status Check, available May 8, 2022,
through September 30, 2023, on the E-DV website, dvprogram.state.gov. The Department of State
does not send selectee notifications or letters by regular postal mail or by email. Any email
notification or mailed letter stating that you have been selected to receive a DV that does not come
from the Department of State is not legitimate. Any email communication you receive from the
Department of State will direct you to review Entrant Status Check for new information about your
application. The Department of State will never ask you to send money by mail or by services such
as Western Union, unless you are adjusting status.
