# Sales order

A sales order is a commercial document - **prepared by a seller and issued to a customer** - confirming the sale of goods or services involved in a given **transaction**. 
The document contains details about the sale, including the **quantity**, **quality**, and **price** of any goods or services exchanged.

It should also cover things like **delivery date**, **delivery address**, **payment method**, and any other information relevant to the terms and logistics of the sale itself. A sales
order is an internal document - generated by the vendor and kept on record. This allows companies to keep track of the orders they fulfill.

Sales orders are most commonly used by manufacturers, retailers, wholesalers, and suppliers.

## Difference from quotas

Though sales orders and quotes are both vendor-generated and discuss a potential sale, the two are very different documents that serve very different purposes. But that’s not to say 
they’re not interrelated (взаимосвязанный). You can think of a sales order as the byproduct of a process that a quote can set in motion.

A vendor usually generates a quote at the request of a **prospective buyer**. The document contains an itemized list of products and services along with their respective prices and 
terms of sale. Once a buyer accepts a quote, they move to the next step in the process by sending a vendor something called a **purchase order**.

## Difference from purchase order

A purchase order is an official confirmation of a buyer’s intent to purchase from a vendor. It’s a buyer-issued document that confirms certain aspects of a **transaction**, including 
details like **prices** and requested **quantities**. Once a vendor receives and accepts the terms of a purchase order, they create a **sales order** based on its details.

**Sales orders** and purchase orders are inherently interconnected (неотъемлемо взаимосвязаны). The key difference between the two boils down to who generates the document and who 
receives it.

A purchase order comes from a customer, is issued to a vendor, and lays out the terms of a potential sale. A sales order comes from a vendor, is issued to a customer, and confirms 
the vendor’s acceptance of the terms set in a given purchase order before delivery.

Once accepted by a vendor, a purchase order often constitutes a **legally binding contract** (юридически обязывающий договор). If a vendor doesn’t deliver on the agreed terms of a 
purchase order, in certain circumstances, a buyer may take **legal action** against the seller, and vice versa.

## Difference from invoice

Once the vendor has received a **purchase order** and processed a **sales order**, they generally send the buyer an **invoice**. An invoice specifies the amount of money a buyer 
owes a vendor for the exchange of goods and services agreed upon in the sales and **purchase orders**. It can be easy to confuse sales orders with invoices. Both are vendor-generated 
and list the details of a specific sale.

The main distinctions between the two are highlighted in each document’s **respective purpose** (соответствующая цель) and **timing**. A sales order confirms a sale. It prompts a 
vendor to start assembling, packaging, or preparing the goods and services requested in a purchase order.

Invoices come in after this step. Using the details specified in a **sales order**, invoices tell buyers how, when, and how much to pay for the goods and services they’ve purchased.

## Importance of the Invoices

30 days is a standard timeframe for invoice, but that figure can vary from business to business.

Invoices are extremely important for **record-keeping** purposes. An invoice is the most concrete evidence both buyers and vendors have for a sale. Keeping track of invoices allows a 
company to stay on top of how much it’s spending or earning, which employees are responsible for any sales or purchases, and any outstanding debt the company may have.

It’s also considered proper practice for businesses to track invoices for **tax purposes**. The **IRS** suggests that businesses maintain a running summary of all business 
transactions. Keeping detailed records of invoices can be a critical part of that process.

Invoices help businesses from a **legal perspective** as well. They provide documentation of how and when a customer bought any goods or services from a vendor. A signed invoice 
shows that there was a mutual understanding between a buyer and a vendor over a specific purchase, reducing the risk of any legal action over pricing.

## Importance of Sales Orders

For a vendor, sales orders are crucial to keeping track of his/her inventory. They allow you and your business to stay on top of what you have in stock, what you have on backorder, 
and what you may need to purchase from your distributors.

Agreeing to the terms of a purchase order usually makes a deal legally binding. Maintaining detailed records of one's sales orders will help ensure you can deliver on those agreements.

**Sales orders** are also central to reducing the risk of **material misstatement** in your company’s financial reporting. **Material misstatement** is any kind of inaccuracy in a 
financial statement that may significantly impact the financial decisions of anyone relying on that statement’s information.

**Material misstatements in reporting inventory balances can have some very real consequences.**

## Sales Order Format

- Company name and contact information;
- Customer name and contact information;
- Customer billing information;
- Customer shipping information;
- Product or service information;
- Price before taxes;
- Tax, delivery, and shipping charges;
- Total price after taxes;
- Any previous deposit;
- Current balance;
- Terms and conditions as defined by your company;
- Signatures;
- Any other relevant information as needed;

## Sales Order Process

- A customer sends a request for quote (RFQ) from a vendor;
- After receiving the RFQ, the vendor sends back a quote;
- The customer considers the quote reasonable and sends back a purchase order;
- The vendor receives the purchase order and uses its details to generate a sales order;
- The vendor sends the sales order to the customer to confirm the terms of the sale;
- The vendor assembles, packages, or prepares the goods and services requested.
- The vendor delivers those goods or services;
- Using the details of the sales order, the vendor generates an invoice and sends it to the customer;
- Ideally, the customer pays the amount specified on the invoice within the allotted time frame;